

--- PAGE 1 ---
Pace University  CS672 -Introduction to Deep Learning  Spring  2026 
Computer Science Department  Prof. Sarbanes  Page 1 of 2 
 Computer Science Department  
CS672 – Introduction to D eep Learning  (CRN: 72938 ) 
Spring  2026 
 
Project # 2 / Due 17-Apr-2026 
 
Build a Deep Learning model , TensorFlow  framework,  (based on Neural Network s, not on classic Machine 
Learning model s) that provides reliable and improved accuracy of a NYC Yellow Taxi trip/ride duration . 
 
You used the NYC/TLC Yellow Cab dataset, in Project #1, to find correlation among the various variables to 
improve ride time predictions and predict the trip duration of a taxi ride considering  the different factors 
that affect the ride duration. Along with the above -mentioned  dataset , one more file should be included 
in your analysis, which involves the climatic conditions of the city.  
 
Both  datasets should be combined using pre -processing techniques to create a single dataset that can be 
used further for accurate trip duration prediction.  
 
Get the NYC climatic data  from the Meteostat portal.  
Here is the URL to download the Jan -2020 climate data  (*): 
https://meteostat.net/en/place/3BBKPQ?t=2020 -01-01/2020 -01-31 
(Note, the temp eratures are Celsius degrees and not in Fahrenheit!)  
 
 
 
NOTE: FEEL FREE TO UTILIZE ANOTHER SOURCE FOR WEATHER -
RELATED INFORMATION IN NYC !!! 


--- PAGE 2 ---
Project #2   Sarbanes -- Page 2 of 2 
 Perform regression modeling analysis on the ready -to-be-fed data into the following Neural Network 
based algorithms:  
1) MLP  (Multi -Layer Perceptron)  
2) Linear Regression  (TF/Keras Sequential model w/ no hidden layers)  
3) DNN  (Deep Neural Network with at least 2 hidden layers)  
 
Split your dataset into training and validation  datasets in 80%/20% ratio.  
(Note: Since dataset is time -sensitive , be extra careful on splitting…)  
 
At the compiling  phase, use:  
• loss function: Mean Square Error (MSE), Mean Absolute Error (MAE).  
• optimizer : SGD, Adam, RMSProp.  
o Use various values for  learning rate (lr)  
 
After each fit (run each one for a single value  of epoch =100 ), present/plot the training_loss vs 
validation_loss  (could utilize TensorBoard GUI module)  
 
Present the best Regression Deep Learning model  (compare the above 3) and its corresponding 
parameters. Assume bacth_size takes its default value of 32.  
 
Using the best selected regression model, perform predictions by calling Keras model.predict  module and 
review the loss.  
 
Be aware of the following:  
A) Mean square error (MSE) and mean absolute error (MAE) are common loss functions used for 
regression problems. MAE is less sensitive to outliers.  
B) When numeric input data features have values with different ranges, each feature should be scaled 
independently to the same range.  
C) Overfitting is a common problem for DNN models  
 
 
Extra Credit  
Using the PyTorch framework:  
(a) device a neural network model with at least 2 hidden layers, like DNN you created for 
TensorFlow. Feel free to use the same parameters you used above.  
(b) Compare and contrast the respective TensorFlow and PyTorch models.  
 
 
 
(*) While at the Meteostat  portal , select ‘location ’ (New York, Wall Street) and ‘ date range ’ (01/01/2020 
to 01/31/2020).  
 
 
Note, the default ‘date range’ will be the current week…  
 
